# OpenRA Random Map Generator Prototype (unofficial)

This is a prototype random map generator for OpenRA. It is by no means complete,
but can already generate playable maps.

This project **does not and will never** make use of machine learning/generative AI.

This prototype is written in JavaScript and can run directly within a browser.

## Setting up locally

1. Checkout the repository.

2. Obtain a copy of https://github.com/OpenRA/OpenRA/blob/bleed/mods/ra/tilesets/temperat.yaml and save it the root of the repository.

3. Run `perl ./compile-tile-info.pl` to generate `temperat-info.json`

4. Serve the repo locally using a web server, e.g. `python -m http.server -b 127.0.0.1 8000`

5. Open it in a browser!

## License

The official license for this project is in the LICENSE file.

In order to maintain the more permissive MIT license for this software, it does
not include any files from the OpenRA project, which uses the more restrictive
(but still open source) GPL 3 license.

Whilst the MIT license is already fairly permissive, and may already be used in
projects with more restrictive licenses, feel free to contact me (or open an
issue) if you would like explicit relicensing for inclusion within your own
project.

## Q&A

### Are the generated maps copyrighted or restricted by a license?

No. All maps generated by this software are in the public domain.

Note that this may apply in whole or in part even to maps created using
relicensed derivatives of the map generation software. Copyright laws usually
state that computer-generated works without sufficient human input are
inelligible for copyright protection. There are nuances here which I am not
qualified to discuss. (I am not a copyright lawyer! This is not legal advice!)

### Why not use generative AI?

- Generative AI can require fairly demanding compute resources (memory,
  processing, storage).

- Machine learning requires example data and ultimately derives from it. This
  can become an intellectual property issue.

- Generative AI can be difficult to reason about.

- Generative AI may have unforseen limitations that more conventional software can solve.

I have an ambition that my work could eventually make it into upstream OpenRA or
otherwise be run on player's computers to generate maps in reasonable time.

This isn't to say that there wouldn't be _advantages_ to using generative AI,
and it could potentially be an interesting accademic project. That's just not
what I'm going for, though.

### Why doesn't this project use a GPL license like OpenRA?

The MIT license is more permissive than GPL. This allows it to be used in GPLed
works as well as non-GPLed works. This could be important if the map generation
project were to be included in something other than the OpenRA project itself.

For example, many users create and release maps under various licenses,
including ones which do not allow derivative works. In future, parts of the map
generation project could potentially be integrated into scripts in these
maps. Maps generally don't use GPL, and may use an incompatible license. (In
fact, people often don't even bother to specify a license for their maps.)

More permissive licenses can also encourage contributions from additional
developers. (Though it can also discourage others.)

And, of course, part of it comes down to personal taste.
